*Seminar 3 Copyright: Legal Regulation of Authorship and Moral Rights*

This seminar will look at why and how “authorship” functions as an
organising concept in relation to copyright ownership. It will lead to
an exploration of many puzzles about authors' moral rights as opposed to
their economic rights in an international context.

*Background reading*

- J Griffiths, “Not Such a ‘Timid Thing': The United Kingdom's Integrity
  Right and Freedom of Expression” in Copyright and Free Speech U.
  Suthersanen (eds), pp. (OUP, 2005) pp.211-244 at
  [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1476825][http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1476825]]

- Jane Ginsburg, ‘The Concept of Authorship in Comparative Copyright
  Law' (2002-2003) 52 Depaul L Rev 1063 (note the 6 principles of
  authorship across the 6 jurisdictions as discussed by Ginsburg; this
  article also provides important ammunition for UK judges to make the
  decision in /Sawkins v Hyperion./)

- *Andres Guadamuz, “The Monkey Selfie: Copyright Lessons for
  Originality in Photographs and Internet Jurisdiction” (2016) 5 (1)
  Internet Policy Review

- Annemarie Bridy, “Coding Creativity: Copyright and the Artificially
  Intelligent Author” (2012) Stanford Technology Law Review 5

*Authorship in copyright law and open-source creativity*

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Section 9, CDPA, 1988
  #+END_QUOTE

- *P Jaszi, “Toward a theory of Copyright: The Metamorphoses of
  ‘Authorship'” [1991] Duke Law Journal 455

- Severine Dusollier, ‘Open Source and Copyleft: Authorship
  Reconsidered?' (2003) 26 /Columbia Journal of Law and the Arts/ 283

- CW Zhu, ‘A Regime of Droit Moral Detached from Software
  Copyright?---The Undeath of the “Author” in Free and Open Source
  Software Licensing” (2014) 22 (4) Int J Law Info Tech 367-392

- Aurelija Lukoševičienė, “On Author, Copyright and Originality: Does
  The Unified EU Originality Standard Correspond to The Digital Reality
  in Wikipedia?” [2017] 11 (2) Masaryk University Journal of Law and
  Technology 215

*Joint authorship*

- Section 10, CDPA, 1988

- *Brighton v Jones [2004] EWHC1157 (Ch); [2004] EMLR 507 (paras. 30-59)

- *Fisher v Brooker [2009] UKHL 41 [quickly skim the ruling and try to
  find the part that enables you to answer the relevant seminar
  question.]

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    R Arnold, ‘Reflections on "The Triumph of Music": copyrights and
    performers' rights in music' [2010] IPQ 153
  #+END_QUOTE

*Authorship and Ownership*

- Cummins v Bond [1927] 1 Ch 167 (concerning a work called “The
  Chronicle of Cleophas”)

- /Leah v Two Worlds Publishing Ltd [1951] Ch 393/

- /*Ray v Classic FM Plc/ [1998] FSR 622

- /Pasterfield (t/a Glider Advertising Design) v Denham (t/a Denham
  Design)/ [1999] F.S.R. 168

- /A & M Records v Video Collection/ [1995] EMLR 25

- /Beckingham v Hodgens/ [2003] All ER (D) 247; *[2003]* *EWCA* *Civ*
  *143*

*Moral rights legislation (UK & International)*

- Article 6bis, Berne Convention

- Sections 77-84, CDPA, 1988

*Moral rights cases (attribution & integrity)*

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Morrison Leahy Music Ltd v Lightbody Ltd [1993] EMLR 144
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    *Tidy v The Trustees of the Natural History Museum (1995) 37 IPR 501
    (UK); (1996) 2 Entertainment Law Review E27
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Pasterfield v Denham [1999] FSR 168
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    *Confetti Records v Warner Music UK Ltd [2003] EMLR 35
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Delves-Broughton v House of Harlot Ltd [2012] EWPCC 29
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Sawkins v Hyperion [2005] RPC 32 (CA) (right of attribution)
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    *Snow v Eaton Centre Ltd (1982) 70 CPR (2d) 105 (Ont.) (Canada)
  #+END_QUOTE

*Right against false attribution*

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Moore v News of the World [1972] 1 QB 441 (first UK false
    attribution case)
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Noah v Shuba [1991] FSR 14
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Clark v Associated Newspapers [1998] 1 WLR 1558; 1 All ER 959
  #+END_QUOTE

- 

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
    Harrison v Harrison [2010] E.C.D.R. 12
  #+END_QUOTE

*Moral rights beyond UK jurisdictions*

- Section 28.2 (1), Copyright Act of Canada (pay attention to the
  statutory language of author's right of integrity)

- 17 U.S.C. §101, /Visual Artists Rights Act/ (VARA), /1990/, US

- [/*US moral right cases*/: Shostakovich v. Twentieth Century-Fox Film
  Corp., 80 N.Y.S.2d 575 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1948), aff'd, 87 N.Y.S.2d 430
  (N.Y. App. Div. 1949) (concerning the film /The Iron Curtain/) also
  available
  [[http://www.leagle.com/decision/1948263196Misc67_1247/SHOSTAKOVICH v. TWENTIETH CENTURY-FOX FILM CORP][http://www.leagle.com/decision/1948263196Misc67_1247/SHOSTAKOVICH%20v.%20TWENTIETH%20CENTURY-FOX%20FILM%20CORP]]
  ;

- Gillian v ABC 538 F.2d 14 (2nd Cir. 1976) (Monty Python)

- Dastar v. 20th Century Fox (2003) 539 US 23 (reverse passing off)]

/*Moral rights articles*/

- Elizabeth Adeney, ‘The moral right of integrity: the past and future
  of honour' [2005] IPQ 111

- Edward J. Damich, “The Right of Personality: A Common--Law Basis for
  the Protection of the Moral Rights of Authors” (1988) 23 Ga. L. Rev.
  1-96

- Lionel de Souza and Charlotte Waelde, “Moral Rights and the Internet:
  squaring the circle” (2002) 3 I.P.Q 265-288

- Adolf Dietz, “The moral right of the author: moral rights and the
  civil law countries” (1994) 19 Colum.-VLA JL & Arts 199-227

- Gerald Dworkin, “The Moral Right of the Author: Moral Rights and the
  Common Law Countries” (1995) 19 Colum.-Vla JL & Arts 229.

- Jane C. Ginsburg, “The Author's Name as a Trademark: A Perverse
  Perspective on the Moral Right of Paternity” (2005) 23 Cardozo Arts &
  Ent. LJ 379-389

- Henry Hansmann and Santilli Marina, “Authors' and artists' moral
  rights: A comparative legal and economic analysis” (1997) 26(1) The
  Journal of Legal Studies 95-143

- Roberta Rosenthal Kwall, “Preserving Personality and Reputational
  Interests of Constructed Personas Through Moral Rights: A Blueprint
  for the Twenty-First Century” (2001) U. Ill. L. Rev. 151-172

- Greg Lastowka, “Digital Attribution: Copyright and the Right to
  Credit” (2007) 87 BUL Rev. 41-89

- Susan P. Liemer, “On the Origins of Le Droit Moral: How Non-Economic
  Rights Came to Be Protected in French IP Law” (2011) 19 J. Intell.
  Prop. L. 65

- *Cyrill P. Rigamonti, “The conceptual transformation of moral rights”
  (2007) 55(1)The American journal of comparative law 67-122

- Martin A. Roeder, ‘The Doctrine of Moral Right: A Study in the Law of
  Artists, Authors, and Creators' [1940] 53 Harvard Law Review 554

- Dan Rosen, “Artists' Moral Rights: A European Evolution, An American
  Revolution” (1983) 2 Cardozo Arts & Ent. LJ 155-188

- Craig A. Wagner, “Motion picture colorization, authenticity, and the
  elusive moral right” (1989) 64 NYUL Rev. 628-725

*[Questions]*

[Q1] Is the British wildlife photographer Mr. David Slater entitled to
the copyright of the selfie photographs taken by an Indonesian monkey
who “used” Slater's equipment? What is the dispute between Slater and
the Wikimedia Foundation? Does Slater's claim further stretch the
boundary of the IP law and can it be justified?

[Q2] What are the main requirements of joint authorship under UK law?
Why did the purported joint author fail to fulfil the requirements in
/Brighton v Jone/s? Why was Matthew Fisher able to fulfil these
requirements in /Fisher v Brooker/?

[Q3] What are the two moral rights as identified under the Berne
Convention Article 6bis? How long do moral rights last? Does the British
copyright law fully incorporate these two moral rights into the CDPA?

[Q4] What is the meaning of “derogatory treatment” in relation to the
breach of authorial integrity? Is “treatment” under Section 80 the same
as “adaption” under Section 21 of CDPA? What is meant by “derogatory”?

[Q5] What is the Canadian Case /Snow v Eaton Centre/ about? What is its
connection with UK moral right of integrity?

[Q6] Apart from the two Berne moral rights, UK copyright also has an
indigenous moral right. What is it and what is unique about it?

[Q7] What is ghostwriting? What are potential moral right issues behind
ghost writing?

(See 2 real examples of ghostwriting: i) the Japanese “Beethoven”
scandal:
[[http://www.newyorker.com/culture/culture-desk/the-unmasking-of-japans-beethoven][http://www.newyorker.com/culture/culture-desk/the-unmasking-of-japans-beethoven]]

ii) the legal dispute concerning the former German Chancellor Helmut
Kohl's ghostwritten memoir:
[[http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2014/11/mr-kohl-and-his-ghostwriter-regional.html][http://ipkitten.blogspot.co.uk/2014/11/mr-kohl-and-his-ghostwriter-regional.html]]
)

[Q8] Could the Soviet composer Shostakovich claim his moral right in his
music, which was used, without his approval, in an anti-Soviet movie
made in the U.S.? How are moral rights protected in the USA today?
