*Seminar 2. Copyright: Subsistence Rules*

*Setting the Scene*

- *Jonathan Griffiths, “Dematerialization, Pragmatism and the European
  Copyright Revolution” (2013) 33 (4) Oxford Journal of Legal Studies,
  767--790

- *E Rosati, ‘Originality in the US and UK Copyright Experiences as a
  Springboard for an EU-wide Reform Debate' [2010] IIC 524

- Justine Pila, ‘An Intentional View of the Copyright Work' [2008] 71
  Modern Law Review 535 (note author's discussion on /Millar v Taylor/ &
  /Donaldson v Becket/)

*The emergence of “originality” in copyright*

- *M Woodmansee, ‘The Genius and the Copyright: Economic and Legal
  Conditions of the Emergence of the “Author”' (1984) 17
  /Eighteenth-Century Studies/ 425 (This is a seminal article that
  points out the historical root of “originality” in the Romantic
  aesthetics)

- L Goehr, Chapter 6 “Musical Meaning: Romantic Transcendence and the
  Separability Principle”, /The Imaginary Museum of Musical Works: An
  Essay in the Philosophy of Music/ (Oxford University Press, 1992)

*UK Originality Threshold*

- Sections 1 & 3, CDPA

- *University of London Press Limited v University Tutorial Press Ltd
  (1916) 2 Ch. 601

- Ladbroke v William Hill (1964) 1 WLR 273

*The European Invasion: Impact from the Infopaq jurisprudence*

- [[http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:62008CJ0005:EN:HTML][*Infopaq
  v Danske (C-5/08)(2009) ECR I-6569]]

- *Newspaper Licensing Agency Ltd and others v Meltwater Holding BV
  (2011) EWCA Civ 890

- /Bezpečnostní softwarová asociace v Ministerstvo kultury/ Case
  C-393/09 [2011] ECDR 3

- Painer v Standard Verlags GmbH (C-145/10) [2012] E.C.D.R. 6

- Public Relations Consultants Association Ltd v The Newspaper Licensing
  Agency Ltd and others [2013] UKSC 18

- E Derclaye, ‘Infopaq International A/S v Danske Dagblades Forening
  (C-5/08): Wonderful or Worrisome? The Impact of the ECJ Ruling in
  Infopaq on UK Copyright Law' (2010) EIPR 247

- *Andreas Rahmatian, “Originality in UK Copyright Law: The Old ‘Skill
  and Labour' Doctrine Under Pressure” (2013) 44(1) IIC 4

- Simon Clark, “Just browsing? An analysis of the reasoning underlying
  the Court of Appeal's decision on the temporary copies exemption in
  Newspaper Licensing Agency Ltd v Meltwater Holding BV” (2011) 33(11)
  EIPR 725-728

*Categorising copyright “works”*

- Sections 3-8 CDPA, 1988

- A Christie, ‘A proposal for simplifying United Kingdom copyright law'
  [2001] EIPR 26

- Brian Bandey, ‘Over-categorisation in copyright law: computer and
  internet programming perspective' [2007] EIPR 461

- C Handig, ‘The Copyright Term “Work” -- European Harmonisation at an
  Unknown Level' (2009) IIC 665

- Justine Pila, “Copyright and Its Categories of Original Works” (2010)
  30 (2) /Oxford Journal of Legal Studies/, pp. 229--254

*Literary work*

- Section 3(1) CDPA, 1988

- Millar v Taylor (1769) 4 Burr. 2303 (James Thomson's poetry; the
  ruling was delivered in April 1769. As Millar died on 8 June, 1768,
  the court's decision was treated as if it was handed down on 7 June
  1768)

- Donaldson v. Becket (1774) 4 Burr. 2408 (James Thomson's poetry, House
  of Lord)

- University of London Press Limited v University Tutorial Press Ltd
  (1916) 2 Ch. 601

- *Hollinrake v Truswell (1894) 3 Ch 420 (“[A] literary work is intended
  to afford either information and instruction, or pleasure, *in the
  form of literary enjoyment*.” Per Davey LJ)

- Exxon Corporation v Exxon Insurance Consultants International Ltd
  [1981] 3 ALL ER 241 (single word)

- Francis Day & Hunter v 20^{th} Century Fox [1940] 112 (song title:
  “The Man who Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo”)

- Newspaper Licensing Agency Ltd and others v Meltwater Holding BV
  (2011) EWCA Civ 890

*Musical Work*

- Section 3(1) CDPA 1998

- */Sawkins v Hyperion Records/ [2005] RPC 32 (CA); [2005] EWCA Civ 565

- John Cage, 4'33''---For Any Instrument or Combination of Instruments
  (1952) (Hemmar Press, 1960) (a “work” in question consisting of
  silence)

- *C L Saw, ‘Protecting the sound of silence in 4'33”: a timely revisit
  of basic principles in copyright law' [2005] 2 EIPR 467

- Michael W Carroll, 'The Struggle for Music Copyright' (2005) 57 /Fla L
  Rev/ 907

*Dramatic work*

- *Norowzian v Arks Ltd & Anor (No. 2) [1999] EWCA Civ 3014 (concerning
  two films called “Joy” by the claimant and “Anticipation” by the
  defendant)

- /Banner Universal Motion Pictures/ Ltd /v Endemol/ Shine Group [2017]
  EWHC 2600 (Ch)

- I Stamatoudi, ‘Joy for the claimant: can a film also be protected as a
  dramatic work?'[2000] IPQ 117

- R Arnold, ‘Joy: a reply' [2001] IPQ 10

- A Barron, ‘The legal properties of film' [2004] 67 MLR 177

*[Questions]*

[Q1] What are the basic subsistence rules for copyright protection of
authorial works under UK copyright law?

[Q2] What is the originality standard in copyright law? Compare the
different standards in the UK, US and EU. Are they converging or
diverging?

[Q3] What is the Romantic aesthetic movement in the later 18^{th}
century and the early 19^{th} century? Is Romanticism a driving force
behind modern copyright law? (Do you agree with Woodmansee's thesis?)
How did Romanticism create an idea of artistic “genius” in relation to
the “originality” requirement in copyright?

[Q4] What is the “kleine Münze” doctrine in German copyright law?

[Q5] What are the 8 categories of “works” protectable under the CDPA? Do
you think this categorization is a sensible one? Can perfumes be
protected by copyright? How about football matches?

[Q6] What is meant by “literary works” as defined by the UK copyright
law? (see Section 3, CDPA.)

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
  i) What is the Hollinrake principle in relation to “literary works”
  (see Hollinrake v Truswell (1894) 3 Ch 420) Does it still stand today?

  ii) Are single words (e.g. “Exxon”), short phrases (e.g. "The man who
  broke the bank at Monte Carlo"), and newspaper headlines, protected
  under copyright? Especially, what is the current status of the issue
  from the Court of Appeal ruling in /NLA v Meltwater/?
#+END_QUOTE

[Q7] What is the meaning of “film” or “cinematographic work”? What is
the “auteur theory” of film? Does it have any bearing on the legal
properties of film? Can the short film “Joy” be protected according to
/Norowzian v Ark (2)/? Can TV formats (e.g. X-Factor) be protected?

[Q8] What is meant by “music works” under copyright law? What does the
Court of Appeal decision in /Sawkins v Hyperion/ tell us?

i) Who is Michel Richard Delalande? Does copyright subsist in a work
whose author has been long dead? What is the duration of copyright? Can
the historical musicologist Lionel Sawkins' editorial work trigger a new
copyright on top of Delalande's work?

ii) Does Mummery LJ provide a helpful guidance in determining the legal
meaning of music work? Compare his view with Lord Mansfield's ruling in
/Bach v Longman/ (1777), which is the first music copyright case in this
country.

iii) Can Mummery LJ's definition of music work be extended to those more
avant-garde music pieces---such as John Cage's 4'33''? ( see C L Saw's
article for more information.)

iv) Did the Hyperion Records appropriately attribute Dr. Lionel Sawkins
as the “author” of his reconstructed work? What is the legal
consequence?
